Adds AWS PrivateLink documentation (#17076)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/v3/manage/cloud/manage-users/secure-access-by-private-link.mdx

---
title: Secure access over PrivateLink
description: Manage network access to Prefect Cloud accounts over PrivateLink.
---

PrivateLink is an available upgrade to certain Enterprise plans.  
[PrivateLink](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/) enables account administrators to restrict access to Prefect Cloud APIs and the UI at the network level, by routing all network traffic through AWS and GCP.  
Traffic between your network and Prefect Cloud is encrypted, and does not traverse the public internet.  

To learn more, please contact your account manager or the Prefect team at sales@prefect.io.

Your Prefect team will provide the service endpoint to register.

> Once registered, the following information is required to accept the connection on Prefects side:
> 
> - AWS Account Number for each AWS registering
> - AWS VPC IDs for each registering endpoint
> - Source Region for each VPC (`us-east-1`, `us-east-2` etc.)
> - VPC Endpoint ID for each registered/pending endpoint

Reviewer: I don't think we need to repeat "registering endpoint" so many times. Consider simplifying to:

```suggestion
Provide the following information for the registered endpoint so that Prefect can accept the connection:

- AWS Account Number
- AWS VPC IDs
- Source Region for each VPC (for example, `us-east-1`, `us-east-2`, etc.)
- VPC Endpoint ID
```

> Prefect will match your pending connection to the information provided, and once approved accept the connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prefect will match your pending connection to the information provided, and accept the connection once approved.
```

Once accepted, customers should enable "Modify Private DNS" to ensure the VPCs can resolve the Prefect service endpoint.

With Private DNS and the accepted connection, connectivity can be validated through curl:

```bash
curl -i https://api-internal.private.prefect.cloud/api/health
```

> To configure the Prefect client, and/or workers to use the endpoint, `PREFECT_API_URL` and `PREFECT_CLOUD_API_URL` should be set to the endpoint provided by Prefect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure Prefect clients and/or workers to use the endpoint, `PREFECT_API_URL` and `PREFECT_CLOUD_API_URL` should be set to the endpoint provided by Prefect.
```

> To configure Prefect clients and/or workers to use the endpoint, `PREFECT_API_URL` and `PREFECT_CLOUD_API_URL` should be set to the endpoint provided by Prefect.

Reviewer: Often, _and_ implies _or_. https://developers.google.com/style/slashes#and-or

```suggestion
To configure Prefect clients and workers to use the endpoint, `PREFECT_API_URL` and `PREFECT_CLOUD_API_URL` should be set to the endpoint provided by Prefect.
```

```bash

> prefect config set PREFECT_API_URL=https://api-internal.private.prefect.cloud/api/accounts/<account-id>/workspaces/<workspace-id>

Reviewer: To make placeholders stand out more, I suggest using all caps. https://developers.google.com/style/placeholders

```suggestion
prefect config set PREFECT_API_URL=https://api-internal.private.prefect.cloud/api/accounts/<ACCOUNT_ID>/workspaces/<WORKSPACE_ID>
```
